stop looking at the stock market to
determine the health of the economy
you're never going to find it there if
you watch the news you're only going to
get one side of the equation I am here
to show you the other in today's video
we're going to look at what's happening
with the consumer this is extremely
important when you start seeing all
these different data points piece them
together it's going to make a lot of
sense then we've got to discuss what you
the individual can do let's begin you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you it's just going to get paid
when it gets paid balance carrying card
holders crunched by the Fed rate hikes
on average people are paying about six
thousand dollars six thousand dollars on
their balance imagine a 20 this will
crush you now it's not just that we've
got buy now pay later services that are
being used at record levels you've also
on top of this having very soon right
now having the uh you know student loans
that weren't not needed to be paid back
for three years now they need to be paid
back what do you think this is going to
do of course the consumer is going to
get even more crunched this is important
to realize where we are at in the next
little while the UCLA students who live
in their cars it is not just this one
school well just one area you are seeing
people that are taking on a lot of debt
a lot of debt in order to get into a
school hoping in the end they can pass
hoping that the debt isn't too bad and
then land the job soon after so that
they could pay down the debt so that
they could then move out of their
parents home or out of their vehicle and
get on with their life paying down this
debt and trying to go through the nine
to five the rat race this is not a good
future unfortunately I understand people
want to do this the vast majority of
people are going to a school this this
University College they're going into
this world and they are going to come up
short that is an absolute fact and I'm
going to show you something towards the
end of this video which is not exactly
positive for a lot of people going into
the wrong areas they are putting their
focus their attention their money
getting into tens of thousands of
dollars even sometimes over a hundred
thousand dollars of debt and it's all
going to be in the end a big waste I'll
show you why but here let me do this
first
according to Bank of Canada's recent
monetary policy report growth and are a
real domestic product is forecast to
come in at 1.2 percent for 2024 2.4 in
2025 but TD okay this bank is saying
that they're calling for 0.5
and 1.3 percent wait a second well
they're saying the consumer spending is
going to be contracting
and that's a you know because of what's
happening with interest rates so think
about this when you factor in other
things I'm talking about with the
student loans in the US with the student
loans and you look at so many other
things you've got to realize that the
consumer yeah they're going to spend
they're going to use the buy now pay
later they're going to use their home
equity line of credits but they are not
of course not able to spend as much as
they wanted to on the things that they
did before simply because it's too
expensive now I'm not saying that people
are going to be conservative they're
going to put away so much cash on the
sidelines you and I would do that you
and I might made those good choices but
the vast majority of people they just
don't
there's something important about this
though I don't want you to be one of
those people that goes out there and
makes the wrong decision I want you to
be the one that people in your family
your co-workers they come to and they
say you know what I I just need to know
what do I got to do what I I remember
talking to somebody who said
no they believed that
or I should say they didn't believe that
paying down the you know in the debt
Avalanche method which is essentially
paying down the highest interest rate
debt first would be the appropriate way
they were paying just the the one with
the biggest debt that they had and it
was never coming down
you've got to go based on interest
because overall when you look at it
let's say you had a hundred thousand
dollars of debt you want to pay with the
one with the highest interest rate and
that's just a matter of fact but people
don't know these things I want you to be
that type of person who's getting those
people coming into you that has these
discussions so that you can help people
out too it is a very important thing
that we get into the financial education
aspects as best we can just the basics
how to get out of debt how to you know
you when to use debt appropriately
Canada's standard of living is in
Decline has been declining for years and
isn't poised to stop declining for at
least the generation look at that line
and I put this in the title and people
get freaked out but why it's because the
currency is becoming worse less and less
and less or you can call it worthless
despite turning in solid headline growth
in recent years Canada has lagged behind
the Us and other advanced economies in
terms of standard of living performance
look at it an analysis released by The
Business Council of British Columbia
found that Canada was one of the few
Advanced countries whose citizens have a
lower standard of living than they did
before 2020. our economy is simply not
as efficient or productive as it could
be nor is it generating a real income
per person needed to sustain our
standard of living okay that should hit
home that should make you realize what's
really going on
China stops short of direct consumer
support to spur the economy trying
everything they possibly can this is
going on in China in the U.S in Canada
all across the world they're doing
whatever they can to get people to spend
more money and it is very difficult when
interest rates are higher
and even Gwyneth Paltrow is listing on
Airbnb her guest home now I think
there's a business reason behind this is
not exactly that she needs some
secondary income but I just wanted to
put this in there hopefully to make you
laugh a bit but that's what's going on
today where people are doing anything
they can to bring in some additional
income because of rising costs and
you've got this to worry about Saudi
Arabia to extend voluntary 1 million
Barrel per day crude oil production cut
into September suggesting that they
would do this potentially even further
and that means that you will have the
prices of oil gas and so on be still you
know too high to become
um you know an issue for people I think
this is of course burdensome when you
see oil depends on when you're seeing
this you know it's 70 a bear it's eighty
dollars a barrel But ultimately that is
a factor if it drops too low you've got
some fundamental problems if it's too
high that means we're likely around the
recession so let's see what happens with
that I want to show you what's going on
with the banks
very important indicators that I'm about
to give you right here to tell you
what's actually happening on the
business side you might see your
neighbor's home it comes on the market
and two days later somebody buys it over
asking price that's not the economy as a
whole you got to look at this type of
stuff that's why you're subscribed to
the money GPS because here is where it's
all going to be detailed for you in
simple language look at this okay the
red line net percentage of domestic
tightening standards for commercial and
Industrial loans to small firms that is
now below 50. all I'm trying to show you
here in addition by the way to the small
business Optimum optimism index have
both declined Contracting big time and
they haven't stopped do you notice that
they have not stopped 2020 comes through
okay it's a bound to the bounce back now
declining declining declining inflation
is take taking hold and of course you're
not going to get those loans out there
of course that's why in China they're
doing everything they can they're saying
we need that real estate market 62
trillion dollar real estate market we
got a pump pump we got to do everything
we can Banks you better loan out more
it's the same kind of situation inside
the U.S Canada and other places just
look Banks report toughest loan
standards in years this is the net share
of banks tightening loaning loan
standards for large and mid-sized
businesses you could see that 51 okay
all I'm trying to show you is that the
lending standards have absolutely
tightened of course not you know
something that should be a surprise to
anybody many small U.S banks are not
ready to borrow from the FED in an
emergency they're borrowing at a higher
rate they can't do that anyway I don't
know what's going on here and when this
is all going to change but I can tell
you things are not able to exist in this
world the way they are with moderate you
know interest rates
they can't they absolutely cannot why
home prices haven't fallen more as the
FED hikes rates I just want to make this
very clear your area that you live in
maybe it's a subdivision maybe it's a
city
you look at this well there's only so
many homes in that area you've got the
schools in the area maybe people have
their family in that area you've got
interest rates that have moved up
considerably there's only so many moving
Parts here if people are not willing to
move out because they don't want to get
a mortgage at seven percent they're
gonna say I'm just gonna keep put right
now not going to move I'm going to stay
here I'll wait for interest rates to
come down then we can get moving again
we're not going to refinance at these
levels we're going to stay right where
we are different scenario for the us as
in other places where you know you're
going to get that 30-year mortgage and
you're going to ride that out to the
very end at that rate which is crazy
because other countries don't have that
then you have other people that were
getting into variable mortgages
extremely dangerous I would definitely
stay clear of those even now as you
expect interest rates to drop I wouldn't
even do it I would want to fix rates and
if I wanted to change later or pay the
fees and make that happen Okay so this
is the way it goes tightening standards
people not moving
on the commercial side and of course on
the you know as you see on the consumer
side but look at this AI is on a
collision course with white collar high
paid jobs and with unknown impact one in
five American workers have a job with a
high exposure to artificial intelligence
according to pewd research center it's
unclear if AI would enhance or displace
those jobs and I think you know what's
going on right now okay there's no
question about that absolutely no
question it's white collar workers the
individuals that are trying to build
things
those jobs are coming you know they're
doing the factory workers you're looking
at Walmart you're looking at Amazon all
these big big fulfillment centers are
using robots why because they're more
efficient they work 24 hours a day they
do their thing and that's it workers
want to get paid more oh sure well we're
just gonna put flippy the robot there
we're going to put Chippy the robot
we're gonna put
avocado the avocado making robot the
guacamole making robot at Chipotle these
are real things they're happening now
they're being put in the systems are put
into place you have a problem because if
they lay people off they're not going to
bring them back this is why we need to
be on top of it you can get into
um class Central class Central is a
website I don't have an affiliation with
them though I should mention them so
many times class Central this is a place
where you can learn about AI robotics
Automation and this is from MIT T
Stanford all these other universities
but for free for free they've got stuff
there class Central check it out but of
course if you want you've got to get on
to the Discord where I will tell you
everything breaking it all down I've got
way more stuff coming this is just the
basics I've got the money mirror method
how I was able to determine that that at
the market bottom I was able to tell you
when the market bottom was from
September I was saying hey October
October October and I was able to do
that why the money mirror method I
describe it right here on Discord how do
you get that it's right down below click
that link go over to the Discord log in
check it out Snoop around and also
you're gonna see about 1 000 other
like-minded individuals chat with them
you will see how this is all working I
will message you you will message me
it's going to be a great time check it
out Discord below I'll see you there